---
title: What is sport wushu?
---

Around the 1970’s Chinese Martial Arts started to pay more attention on performing various routines artistically. It drew people’s attention and quickly became popular. This new representation of Chinese Martial Arts not only gave an opportunity for the practitioner to express themselves more freely, but also introduced it as an art for others to see and admire the amazing human body language. A set of compulsory movements and techniques within the forms (called Taolu) has been introduced to act as guidance to set different standards or levels for athletes to work on. It includes various types of jumps, kick, twists etc and are required to be performed with perfection, beautifully and elegantly, and twist and jump to be as more or as high as possible; it is therefore not difficult to understand that current compulsory (sport and competition) Wushu has great demand on body work and techniques, which asks for immense skill acquired through dedication and hard work.

Regardless of how it has evolved, the fundamental origin of current wushu is the traditional Chinese Martial Arts. Whether it can be applied in terms of fighting, I believe it depends on the level of understanding of those movements and its application by each different person. No doubt, it is less actual fighting skills than the traditional training method, nevertheless, it does included self-defence techniques. It may appear that there is less actual fighting in current training method than in the traditional training method, there are essences of self-defence techniques embedded.